Add reference docs for exceptions (#9807)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml/reference/exceptions.rst

.. Copyright (c) 2021 Digital Asset (Switzerland) GmbH and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

.. _exceptions:

Exceptions
##########

> Exceptions are a Daml feature which allows provides a way to handle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exceptions are a Daml feature which provides a way to handle
```

certain errors that arise during interpretation instead of aborting

> the transaction and rollback changes that happened before the

Reviewer: The "and rollback changes" phrase sounds like it is still part of the instead clause.
Not sure what the best way to disambiguate this is, but here is a suggestion:

```suggestion
the transaction, and to roll back the state changes that lead to the
```

error.

There are two types of errors:

Builtin Errors
..............

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Exception type
     - Thrown on
   * - ``GeneralError``
     - Calls to ``error`` and ``abort``
   * - ``ArithmeticError``
     - Arithmetic errors like overflows and division by zero
   * - ``PreconditionFailed``
     - ``ensure`` statements that return ``False``
   * - ``AssertionFailed``
     - Failed ``assert`` calls (or other functions from ``DA.Assert``)

Note that other errors cannot be handled via exceptions, e.g., an
exercise on an inactive contract will still result in a transaction
abort.

User-Defined Exceptions
.......................

Users can define their own exception types which can be thrown and

> caught. The definition looks similar to templates and as for
> templates, the definition will produce a record type of the given name
> as well as instances to make that type throwable and catchable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
caught. The definition looks similar to templates, and just like with
templates, the definition produces a record type of the given name
as well as instances to make that type throwable and catchable.
```

In addition to the record fields, exceptions also need to define a
``message`` function.

.. literalinclude:: ../code-snippets-dev/Exceptions.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- BEGIN_EXCEPTION
   :end-before: -- END_EXCEPTION

Throwing Exceptions
...................

There are two ways to throw exceptions:

1. Inside of an ``Action`` like ``Update`` or ``Script`` you can use
   ``throw`` from ``DA.Exception``. This works for any ``Action`` that
   is an instance of ``ActionThrow``.
2. Outside of ``ActionThrow`` you can throw exceptions using ``throwPure``.

> If both are an option, it is geenrally preferable to use ``throw``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If both are an option, it is generally preferable to use ``throw``
```

since it is easier to reason about when exactly the exception will get
thrown.

Catching Exceptions
...................

Exceptions are caught in try-catch blocks similar to those found in
languages like Java. The ``try`` block defines the scope within which
errors should be handled while the ``catch`` clauses defines which
types of errors are handled and how the program should continue. If
one of the catch clauses applies, all writes (creates, consuming
exercises) in the ``try`` are rolled back. Reads on the other hand
(e.g., fetches) are still preserved and validated so even in a ``try``

> block a ``fetch`` can never fetch an inactive contract.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph may give the wrong impression. E.g. if you do 

```
   try
       cid <- create T
       fetch cid
       throw E
   catch
       E -> ...
```

It's not true that the "create was rolled back but the fetch still happens", because the fetch here only makes sense in the context of the create.

I'm not sure what's the best way to rephrase this. Maybe something like "All ledger changes since the beginning of the try block are rolled back, but all actions in the try block are still validated. For example, a fetch can never fetch an inactive contract, and a create cannot happen without authorization from all signatories" ... or something.

Author: good points. I rewrote it to make it more explicit. wdyt?

Reviewer: Looks great! Thank you :-)
